The next topic that
we're going to
discuss is cell locking.
Cell locking is a powerful tool
that is used
extensively in Excel.
As we saw in the
previous section,
Excel uses relative
references within formulas.
This means that it
will automatically
move the cells that are being
referenced when the formula is
pasted across rows or columns.
Sometimes this is
exactly what you
want to do, but not always.
This is where cell
locking comes into
play when you do not want
Excel to move across rows and
columns using
relative references.
Cell locking
basically tells Excel
not to move the reference
when copying and pasting.
A locked cell is indicated
by a dollar sign.
A dollar sign in the front
of a column letter locks
the column and a dollar sign in
front of the row
number locks the row.
If you put a dollar sign in
both the front letter
and the back row number,
you lock the cell entirely.
You can lock the cell
by manually typing out
the dollar sign or by using
the F4 shortcut key to place
the dollar signs in
a different combination
around the row,
column, both, or none.
Cell locking helps increase
efficiency when
performed correctly,
and also helps you avoid
hard coding values
within a formula.
Second, I find many
spreadsheet errors
come from lack of cell
locking or hard coding.
Let's practice cell locking.
In exercise 1, we're
being asked to calculate
the monthly savings using a
five percent growth rate.
That can be found in cell L12.
We're going to start
by calculating
the savings in
February by applying
the five percent growth rate
to January savings of $100.
We start by typing
equals followed by the amount
of the savings in January,
which can be found in G12.
We then multiply the value
by 1 plus the growth rate,
which can be found in L12.
As you can see,
the savings for
February will be $105.
The same formula can be
used to calculate the
remaining months.
So let's copy down the
rest of the tables.
Notice that something
must have gone wrong,
since the savings for the
rest of the month remained
constant instead of
growing by five percent.
If we go into the
savings for June and
press F2 to open the function,
we can see that Excel is
trying to use a
growth rate in cell
L16 instead of referencing
the five percent in L12.
As discussed, before we
move the formula down
one row and the reference
will move the exact same manner.
This is a perfect example
of how Excel uses
relative references.
When we copy the formulas down,
Excel automatically increase
the row numbers for
the amount of savings,
which is good.
But it also will increase
the row number for the
growth percentage,
which is not what we wanted.
We wanted that five percent being
multiplied by each month.
We can use cell locking
to tell Excel that we
do not want it to increase
the row numbers for
the growth rate.
In order to do so,
let's go back to the
formula for February,
and if we press F2,
it opens the formula
and let's us edit it.
When we lock both the
column and the row,
we're going to add
a dollar sign in front of
both the L and the 12.
Now the formula is
ready for copying down.
Let's copy and paste
it down the table.
As you can see, the
savings grows every month.
We're going to do
the same thing for
savings in column
H. Only this time,
we will be using
the F4 shortcut to lock
down our growth rate.
First, let's write our
growth rate formula
for February the same
way we did before.
As we can see,
this calculates the correct
value for February.
However, we already know we can't
copy this value down unless
we lock in the growth rate.
In order for us to lock cell L12,
we click on the reference within
that formula and then
press F4 to lock it.
As you can see,
Excel puts in dollar
signs locking
the cell entirely when you
click F4 for the first time.
Now if we press F4 again,
we notice one of the
dollar signs is removed.
The cell row has now been locked,
but the column has not.
If we press F4 again,
we see the dollar sign has
moved from the row to the column,
and if we did it one more time,
we go back to the
cell being unlocked.
We want to lock the growth rate.
So let's press F4 one
more time to do that.
Now the formula is ready
to be copied down.
As you can see,
the growth rate is calculated
correctly for each of the months.
Now it's your turn to
practice cell locking
with exercise 1B.
Remember that you can lock
the cell entirely by adding
the dollar sign manually or
by using the F4 shortcut.